the paintings that mana ditch in his
beloved garden in Shivani
the last three decades of his life are
probably amongst the most important and
celebrated paintings of the 20th century
I think not everybody realizes what a
great gardener Monet was Monet first
moved to Shivani in 1883 he created this
very beautiful Japanese water garden he
once said that he thought he was a
greater gardener than he was a painter
water lilies series in a way comes out
of those late series paintings at the
1890s and in a way you feel now that
money has found himself he's found what
he needs to express himself the first
paintings of the pond he shows the
Japanese bridge and some of these sort
of vegetation around the pond but now
the surface of the water the water
lilies and the reflection of the sky in
the water his exclusive subject for all
those years up until his death in 1926
what's lovely about this composition and
the others from this important series
from 1905 to 1907 is the way money's
just stripped away everything else it's
almost abstract in a way the subject is
really the air and the atmosphere above
the pond
what fascinated money were the shifts of
light and atmosphere throughout the day
so he may well been working on this
canvas and another one in the series
that has more of the midday Sun or
another one where he's capturing the
evening light this one we're pretty
certain it's early morning he's caught
that magical moment when the mist is
just sort of evaporating is being burnt
off the surface water by the Sun and
it's beautifully crafted and he probably
went back to it on many occasions before
he considered the work complete when you
get up close you see the extraordinary
technical prowess of money here this is
in a wonderful condition I think we're
seeing it pretty much as it would have
been when it left
Monet's studio money chose this painting
for this very important show act his
dealers Paul Johann well in 1909 yes
there was an exhibition of 48 of these
canvases of the water lily pond and I
think it was the experience of seeing
them all together
that probably has sparked the idea for
his so-called Klondike aha see all the
wonderful enormous panels of this
subject which of course are now
permanently installed in the Orangery in
Paris this painting itself stayed with
Paul du haut well right through the
dealers lifetime it's one that he chose
to hang on to and after his death his
family also kept it which I think
indicates that it's one that they felt
was very special